(DOCSP-43346) Auditing and Logging (#33)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/auditing-logging.txt

   :depth: 1
   :class: onecol

To monitor and log |service| platform activities, use auditing and logs.

{+service+} Features and Best Practices for Auditing and Logging
----------------------------------------------------------------

Auditing
~~~~~~~~

Database auditing lets administrators track system activity for 
deployments with multiple users. |service| administrators can select 
the actions, database users, |service| roles, and LDAP groups that they 

> want to audit. You can configure manual :manual:`auditing </core/auditing>` 
> in |service| of most of the documented :manual:`system event actions 
> <audit-action-details-results>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
want to audit. You can configure manual :manual:`auditing </core/auditing>` 
of most of the documented :manual:`system event actions 
<audit-action-details-results>` in |service|.
```
This reads more naturally to me.

You can :atlas:`set up database auditing <set-up-database-auditing>`.

To learn about best practices for auditing the actions of temporary
database users, see :atlas:`Audit Temporary Database Users <audit-temp-db-users>`.

By default, |service| performs database authentication auditing in M10+ clusters
to record authentication events, which include:

- database users
- source IP addresses

> - timestamps for successful and failed attempts.

Reviewer: Database users and IP addresses are not, themselves, authentication events, right? There are authentication events which pertain to them, though. Are the recorded events database user login attempts and connection attempts from IP addresses? I think we should either stick with the characterization 'events' and then find a way to rewrite these items to be events, or we rework the wording above to say something like 'record authentication events, including those pertaining to:'

In addition, you can configure a JSON-formatted audit filter
to customize MongoDB auditing.
For a full list of events you can configure for auditing, and for a list

> of examples, see :manual:`MongoDB auditing </core/auditing>`.

Reviewer: RE: the above, consulting this list might be a good way to get an idea of how we can rewrite the list to describe events.

see :atlas:`Atlas Deployment Logs </cli/current/command/atlas-deployments-logs/>`.

Examples
--------

The following examples show how to download logs and enable auditing
using |service| :ref:`tools for automation <arch-center-automation>`.

In addition to the following examples, see the blogpost
`Streamlining Log Management to Amazon S3 Using Atlas Push-based Log Exports With HashiCorp Terraform <https://www.mongodb.com/developer/products/atlas/streamlining-log-management-amazon-s3-atlas-push-based-log-exports-hashicorp-terraform/>`__.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: CLI
      :tabid: cli

      Download Logs
      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~

      Run the following CLI command to download a compressed file that contains the
      MongoDB logs for the specified host in your project.

      .. include:: /includes/examples/cli-example-download-logs.rst

   .. tab:: Terraform
      :tabid: Terraform
 
      The following example demonstrates how to enable auditing for
      your deployment. Before you can create resources with Terraform,
      you must:

      - :ref:`Create your paying organization <configure-paying-org>`
        and :ref:`create an API key <atlas-admin-api-access>` for the

>         paying organization. Store your API key as environment variables
>         by running the following command in the terminal: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        paying organization. Store your public and private keys as environment 
        variables by running the following command in the terminal: 
```
